			Lyon's Cochlear Model
			By Malcolm Slaney
			Apple Technical Report #13
			(c) November 1988
			Apple Computer, Inc.
			malcolm@apple.com

About this disk
	This disk contains the electronic version of Apple Technical Report 
	#13 which describes the implementation of Richard Lyon's model of the 
	cochlea (the inner ear.)   This disk includes the following 
	information.
		1)	This README file
		2)	Lyon's Cochlear Model (The Mathematica Notebook)
		3)	C and Fortran source code to implement the model 
			with real data (with manual page)
		4)	A Mathematica notebook reader
		5)	A introduction to Mathematica notebooks (Called 
			"Read This First."

How to use this floppy
	The most interesting file on this disk is a Mathematica
	notebook describing Richard Lyon's Cochlear Model.  This is a real 
	live electronic document which can be read and modified by the 
	Mathematica program.  We hope that most people will be able to 
	acquire a copy of Mathematica and interact with the notebook.  This
	is the best way to understand the material.

How to run Mathematica
	Mathematica runs on a number of different computers.  Some machines
	(for example Macintoshes and NeXT) support the concept of a notebook.  
	A notebook is a combination of words and equations that can be read 
	like a normal paper.  In addition the notebook allows the user to 
	interact with the equations and replot the figures (perhaps with new 
	parameters).

	The notebook reader provided with this technical report is a stripped
	down version of the normal Mathematica front end.  This reader will
	allow you to look at the notebook on a Macintosh but not to change 
	any of the parameters or otherwise do any mathematics.  If you want to 
	interact with the notebook you will need to aquire a copy of 
	Mathematica for your favorite machine.  You can purchase a copy of 
	Mathematica from either Wolfram Research (217 398-0700) or from an 
	Apple software dealer.  See the "Read This First" Mathematica notebook 
	for more details.

	You can interact with the notebook using Mathematica on other machines
	but the front end isn't quite as snazzy.  Equations in the model can
	be changed but you will not be able to browse through the document 
	electronically.  If you transfer the data fork of the notebook to a
	different machine the resulting file is a bunch of Mathematica commands
	which can be read in with the "<<" command.

About the source code
	This disk also includes the complete source code to implement the
	cochlear model.  This code has been tested on the following machines
	and environments:
		1)	Cray XMP 4/8 under Unicos 3.0 and 4.0 (48us per loop)
			The all C version runs slower (2ms per loop)
		2)	Sun 3/260 under Sun Unix 4.0 (37ms per loop with 68881)
		3)	Apple Macitosh under MPW 3.0 (60ms per loop)
	The program is written entirely in C but most of the kernel is also
	written in Fortran so that the Cray can vectorize the code.  Makefiles
	are provided for each of these environments.  Please contact the 
	author if you would like this information in some other electronic
	form than a Macintosh floppy. 

	Note the times shown in paranthesis above are the time it takes that 
	machine to execute one iteration through the cochlear loop.  This
	loop implements the filtering, detection and AGC and is executed once
	for every sample.  Any time faster than 64us is better than real time
	for a speech signal digitized at 16khz.

How to unpack this disk
	The files on this floppy are archived and compressed using a utility
	called StuffIt.  To unpack these files just double click on the icons
	and click on the extract button.  The Mathematica related files (the
	MathReader, the introductory notebook "Read This First" and Lyon's
	Cochlear Model) are in an archive called Mathmatica.sit.  The source 
	code, manual pages and documentation for the program are in another
	archive called code.sit.

	Contact the author if you would like this information in some other
	format other than on a Macintosh floppy.


If you have questions
	If you have any questions the author can be reached at the following
	addresses.  
			Malcolm Slaney
			Apple Computer
			20525 Mariani Avenue
			Cupertino, CA 95014
			(408) 974-4535
			malcolm@apple.com       <=====  Best Way
